March is International Women’s Month.  Instead of posting memes and sending words or encouragement,  this year we are putting our money where our mouths are. Entrepreneurship is a difficult and often lonely path many travel alone. By supporting a small business, you are not only supporting the economy; you are helping someone realize their dream. You are also doing your bit to reduce South Africa’s high unemployment rate. According to SME Toolkit South Africa, “recent research predicts that women-owned businesses may  create 972 000 jobs by 2022.”  As a consumer, you have the power to make change by being conscious about where you spend your money. Here is a list of women-owned businesses you can support this Women’s Month. Travel As the world continues to open up, travel is back on the minds of many. Why not support a black-owned company to help you plan that trip of a lifetime? Zimasa Travel is a 100 percent black female-owned travel management company ” aimed at providing tailor-made travel solutions from planning to execution of any travel or conference needs,” the company says. Beauty Corium Skin Care is a South African Natural skincare range. The range was founded by Vuyi Zondi and two other women entrepreneurs.  “Our brand is built on the hallmarks of simplicity, purity and credibility. The natural skincare solutions that we provide are natural and botanical. In other words, every ingredient in our products is derived from nature, and as far as possible, in its most unrefined and natural state. Our recipes are inspired by traditional African, Himalayan and Ayurvedic beauty practices,” the company says. Get your soaps, serums, body butters oils and more. Fashion As the world gains more awareness about the dangers of fast fashion, more people are starting to invest their money in timeless, well-made and locally produced clothing. If sustainability is a core value for you, consider supporting Selfi.  The company was founded by Celeste Arendse and is based in Cape Town. Selfi is described as a “ready-to-wear, ethical, and most importantly, sustainable fashion brand.” The company  specializes in creating sustainable, bespoke ethical apparel and accessories. Wines We all know the big players in the wine game, and while we can appreciate their heritage, it is important that we support the women who are building new legacies.  Siwela Wines was founded by Siwela Sweetness Masonga, a biotechnologist and wine maker.  Part of her vision is to increase the participation of black women wine enthusiasts in the sector, and to build a sustainable internationally recognised brand by 2025. Flowers Nothing says ” I am thinking about you,” quite like a bouquet of flowers. Instead of getting your blooms from the garage or local supermarket, get something special made for the loved one in your life.  Ditch the roses and lilies and get something extraordinary from Adene Flowers. Founded by Adene Nieruwoudt, the company produces high quality, long-lasting flowers and foliage. They sell gorgeous varieties such as anemones and dusty millers. You don’t need a special occasion to treat yourself to a gorgeous bunch of flowers. History books give the impression that men have invented most of the things that have… Starting out as a designer for the iconic Stoned Cherrie to being the first African… Compared with their counterparts in France, the UK, Japan and Hong Kong, South African women… 