We often think a job interview is a one-way street. Sure, things are tough and those of us looking for work would love to get a brand new job. However, it is important to realize that this is a place you will be spending a majority of your time. It is important to know what you are getting yourself into. Asking the right questions during an interview will give you a sense of the company and help you make a better decision. You may be tempted to skip over this stage of the interview and get things done as soon as possible. However, asking a few questions is important. According to Indeed, a job posting portal “It’s important that you’ve prepared at least two or three questions that express your interest, as well as show them that you’ve done your homework by researching the company in advance”. Here is a short list of some of the questions you could ask to get a better sense of the organisation you are looking to join. What are the expected qualities to succeed in the position applied for? Linkedin says “this opens up the conversation for the interviewer to share detailed expectations that may not be given in the JD or job post. This is important as you will also be able to better assess if you are the right fit for the role you applied for”. It will set you up for success because you will have an idea of what you need to do to make it in the role. What is the company culture? This one is very important if you would like to get a sense of how the organisation treats its stuff. Find out how they deal with off-days, whether they respect days off, and how they reward the team for a job well done. A company that respects it’s employees as assets will show it by putting systems in place that make employees feel valued and appreciated. Don’t be seduced by pizza Friday’s, instead ask about days off and how the organsation deals with family and personal emergencies.  Feel free to talk about your values and ask if the company does work that aligns with some of them. What is your staff turnover? If a company has a lot of people leaving in a short space of time, be aware that this is a red flag. According to Forbes, people leave managers, not jobs. If people are choosing to leave during a particularly dire economic situation, there might be something wrong with the company that you might want to avoid.  You could ask what the company is doing to improve staff retention; this can give you an idea of what they are changing to improve things for employees. What gets you most excited about the company’s future? If you want to get a sense of where the company is headed, this is the question to ask. It will also give you an idea of potential growth prospects within the organisation. If the interviewer doesn’t seem enthusiastic about growth, it might be a good idea to ask follow-up questions about where the company sees itself in the future. Major changes such as downsizing could have an impact on your workload. It’s important to remember that the company is hiring to solve a problem. Not only do you need them, they also need you and the skills you have to solve their problem. Good luck. No-one knows what the future of the country, let alone the world, holds. It’s a… We’re more than halfway through the 35-day lockdown and things aren’t looking good for businesses.… Although we all understand the importance of Stage 4 lockdown and social distancing right now,… 