You wanna be on top? This is what Tyra Banks asked the contestants on America’s Next Top Model. For ordinary folks this could mean several things. Do you want to be on top of the world? Or do you just want to stay on top of that intimidating to-do list? The answer to both questions is fairly simple. Self management. “A manager is a person whose job it is to oversee one or more employees, divisions, or volunteers to ensure that they carry out certain duties or meet specific group goals,” says R. Kayne from Practical Adult Insights. The most important part of a manager’s job is ensuring that the team is working towards certain goals. When practicing self-management it is important to have a clear picture of what you want to achieve. This way, you will be able to create a road map of steps to take towards that goal.  Without a plan, you will be working aimlessly towards nothing. It also means you have nothing to help you  measure your progress. A good manager holds each person on the team accountable. In an article written for The Harvard Business Review, behavioral change expert Peter Bregman noted that “Accountability is not simply taking the blame when something goes wrong. It’s not a confession. Accountability is about delivering on a commitment. It’s responsibility to an outcome, not just a set of tasks. It’s taking initiative with thoughtful, strategic follow-through.” Once you have your goals and have written down the steps you will take to achieve them, it is important to hold yourself accountable. Doing what you said you would do will bring you closer to your end goal. Failure to hold yourself accountable can lead to feeling overwhelmed by the enormity of the tasks ahead.  You might also feel panicked at having to do something too close to the deadline. As the African proverb says, the best way to eat an elephant is one bite at a time. Review your progress Sometimes, even the best laid plans go awry. Taking time to review your progress will give you an opportunity to see what is working and what isn’t. If you continue going full steam ahead with a plan that isn’t working, you might find yourself surprised that you have not achieved what you wanted to at the beginning of your goal. The sooner you review your progress, the easier it is to pivot and problem solve. Another benefit is the feeling of accomplishment. Human beings are addicted to feeling a sense of achievement. According to Reach Out  “A sense of accomplishment is an important element in students developing positive wellbeing over time. Research also shows the following: People with a strong sense of purpose, persistence and accomplishment perform better at work.” American fashion designer Rachel Zoe says style is a way of expressing who you are… It’s that time of the year again. Energy is low and motivation is lagging. Here's… There is a lot of pressure to improve yourself during the lockdown and this can… 